You already know how to open right and close files.
But so far you have only worked with documents that are in the same location as the Python file you
are working with.
This means that if you don't specify any path when you open a file, as we have done so far, Python
by default will look for your file in the same location where the program is currently running.
The way to do this is simple.
Instead of typing just the name and extension of your file, you type its entire path.
But this presents two problems.
The first problem is that if you work with windows, navigation in subdirectories is done with the backslash.
But if you remember our lecture about strings, when you put a backslash inside a string, Python interprets
it as a special character.
For example, writing a line break or things like that.
And the only way for it to read it literally as a backslash is to write it in duplicate.
So you have to do that manually.
And the second problem is that the directory separators are different on different systems, backslash
on windows, but regular backslash on Unix and Mac.
We are going to solve this with an object called PATH, which we are going to have to import from the
Path Lib module in order to use it.
And since we are importing modules, we are also going to meet the OS module which stands for operating
system.
This module offers us all the tools to interact with the directory of the computer.
It has several methods and we're going to use them to master the navigation of our directories.
Let's go over to Pie Charm to know how to use the most important ones.
Let's start by remembering that I've stored our code in this PC in desktop python on the day six.
Here you can see all the files.
Some files contain code and others are text files we worked with during the last lecture.
So now that we remembered this, let's go back to py charm and import the OS module by writing import
OS.
Here we have it along with all its methods.
So now we can start doing the following.
We'll create a variable named path.
And what data will I store there?
I'll store the OS module using the function.
Get C, D, and here we have it.
That name means get current working directory.
So what is path storing?
Let's find out.
With print there will show path and let's execute to see what is displayed in the console.
Here we have the current directory path in which I'm working with the one I showed you a couple of seconds
ago.
Here we have desktop python and basics.
So OS has plenty of useful methods really.
We will analyse some of them such as c hdr, which means change directory.
With this method we can create a different path directory which we need to do in order to open files
located in other folders.
So we'll enter a different path.
And I've created a new folder for this.
It's located in my desktop.
It's called Alternate Folder and it contains another file.
So I'll copy this path to see if we're able to open this file.
So now back in Python, we copy that here.
So first of all, remember that we have to write it as a string.
And in the case of Windows, which is the operating system I work with, we also need to always add
a double backslash.
We'll soon see how we can work if we have another operating system.
If we execute this and see the new path will have a non object because we're not obtaining the current
path but only modifying it.
This object has nothing to show us but the path.
The variable is now storing a different path and we'll verify that by opening a different file.
If that's our new current path, will then create another version of file in which we'll type open.
And here we'll enter another file dot text, which is the one we weren't able to open because we couldn't
get out of our current directory.
So let's print file and we'll now get a file named another file text and read only mode, it's encoding,
etc..
So the important part here is that we've been able to access this file and we could read it if we wanted
to by typing file, dot read here and executing it again and here we're told that the file is located
in a different folder.
That's what's inside the file.
This is how we can change directories with C HDR, which is an OHS function that allows us to access
any folder we want.
Not only can we access different folders, but we can also create them.
Instead of using the c hdr here I can use another function.
Let's type a dot and it's called make d iris with which we can create directories and set paths where
we can create new folders.
Suppose that I create a new folder inside alternate which is called another.
Just like that I can execute it and I'll get an error message because I'm reading a file that is not
located there.
The interesting part is if I go inside alternate or see a new folder called another that I've created
directly from Python.
Are you following me?
A path can basically have two elements.
It's based name, which is all the way.
You have to go through it to get to the folder containing your file and the file name.
If you complete this with the name of a file, you'll have a full path.
If we have a path formed by two elements, we can also use some OS functions to obtain both elements
separately.
These functions are base name and the I.R. name, and we'll try them like this again.
We'll copy this path where we have the test file.
We'll directly paste it in path type quotation marks, add backslash, and soon we'll figure out how
we can work with backslash or forward slash.
And we'll also need to read to the name of the file which is test dot text.
So we'll delete this so as to see how we can obtain on one hand the first part of the path and then
the second part, which is the name of the file.
So let's create a variable named element which will store OS dot path, dot base name, and let's ask
for the base name of our path, which is a full path.
So if we execute this and show element.
We obtained test text, which is the base name of our element.
But instead of looking for the name of the file, we want to obtain the first element in our path,
which is all this up to the DE six.
So we'll type their name instead of base name, which will execute it and will obtain the first part
of our path.
In case you want to obtain both elements contained separately in a tuple, you could use the split function
which we already worked with when analyzing strings.
Split will provide us with a tuple containing the name of the path or directory and the base name.
These are some ways to achieve this so we can also delete folders.
Suppose that I want to delete the folder another and I've created inside alternate.
I'll copy this path.
We don't need to print anything now, so let's delete everything and call os and it's rmd eir function
which means remove directory and we'll paste the path here.
Add quotation marks, double backslash so it can be read properly and we'll say we want to delete the
folder called another.
So when I execute this, it won't display anything since there's nothing to show.
But if we go to the alternate, we'll see that my folder doesn't exist anymore.
OS has a wide variety of functions, so I advise you to give them a go.
There's much more to learn, but remember some concepts before learning how to write paths.
They're available for any operating system.
We'll remember how to open a file accessing a different path, but without using OS like we did in the
first lecture.
But first, we're going to create a variable named another file, which is identical to a path that's
different to the one we have.
Remember that if I search for test text without adding anything else, but quotation marks of course
will only be able to open it if it is located in my directory.
So if I go to alternate, copy this.
And now without O's I type my directory and the name of the file we're looking for, which is another
file.
Text between quotation marks, then add brackets that put it inside open and then I enter print and
another file read.
And finally I execute it and we'll see that we don't get the contents of another file through a different
folder.
Now let's see how we can create paths that are recognized properly by other operating systems.
Because if we type paths this way in operating systems like Mac or Linux, we'll get errors since they
won't be able to recognize those paths.
So we're going to use a different module, which is PATH.
Let's import from path lib this object called PATH.
As you can see, I've typed path in uppercase because it's neither a module nor a function.
Path is an object.
But don't worry, we'll soon explain what objects are since they're very important.
For now, I'm just highlighting why it is in uppercase.
What happens here is that we've obtained a group of elements from path lib and they're going to help
us solve a problem.
So I'll show you how.
Let's create a variable called folder in which will store path and the directory.
We'll copy this once again and in order to change something and now we'll enter forward slashes the
regular ones.
This is how operating systems like Mac and Linux can read.
So let's add quotation marks as well.
And we have a path.
So now I'll type the name of the file I want to import and I'll create the path to access that file
by concatenating folder, which is the first part, the path inside path, and we'll incorporate this
using a forward slash.
This is a different concatenation to the ones we've seen.
It's a concatenation we use to create paths.
Basically, we're adding a slash here at the end of alternate.
What follows is the name of the file, which is another file dot text.
Of course it has to be between quotation marks in order to be concatenated properly.
Now I have my full path with both elements.
However, since the first element is in path, I'm allowing any system to recognize it Windows, Mac,
or whatever.
In order to demonstrate this will create a variable named my file and it's going to be equal to open
file like we did before.
But file was created in a different way.
So now we'll print it to verify it through my file.
Read.
So let's see what happened.
I didn't get an error and I could open it just fine.
So I'm working with Windows, so I've been able to open a path identical to the ones from Mac.
If I did this using a mac, the same would happen.
I could read it without any problems.
So this allows other users to open files with the same code every time you export, sell, share, or
whatever it is you do with your programs.
Even if you delete the C and colon which we use in windows and you leave the Mac mode like that, it
will also work.
So if I'd done this without the path object in Windows, I'd have gotten an error.
So one way of simplifying this, but making it less readable is to directly type everything inside folder.
So let's delete this previous stuff and here we can enter the folder, the slash, the name of the file,
and instead of opening file, which I deleted, I can open folder and execute it.
So it still works.
It's a bit less readable, but we can save ourselves a line of code.
To sum up, we're learning something about path lib.
It is a module that was added to the 3.4 version of Python.
If this was everything Path Live did, it'd be quite useful.
But actually it does much more than that.
Path Lib can do most of everything I've taught you in a more efficient way.
So in the next lecture, we'll dig deeply into the tools of path lib.